This week I'll be talking about
transfer learning with
the full transformer.
I'll also talk a little
bit about BERTs,
which is the Bidirectional
Encoder Representation
for Transformers.
Then I'll talk about
a special model
known as the T5 model,
which you will learn about.
Now all of these concepts make
use of transfer learning.
What is transfer learning?.
Let's take a look.
When training a model,
what are the common
desirable goals?
The first thing is you want
to reduce training time.
Especially with
these larger models,
the training time gets larger,
and larger and it's good,
take up two months
to get a good model,
especially with this GPT-3 and
these latest states of
the arts algorithms.
You also want to improve
predictions and gets
better results.
Finally, you want to be able
to use smaller datasets.
We can improve on
these three goals with
a method of training
called transfer learning.
Let's look at the transfer
learning options.
The first thing is what's
you're already familiar with.
You have some training data,
you feed this into your model
and you got a prediction.
Now, in transfer learning,
there are two methods.
There is the feature
based method,
which is word vectors,and
then there's the
fine tuning method,
which allows you to take a model,
and use those existing weights,
and fine tune them on a new task.
In pre-train data,
there are two things.
There is a labeled
and unlabeled data.
For labeled, you usually
have inputs and labels.
For unlabeled, you have
no targets and no labels,
and then you'll generate
them from the texts.
Finally, the third step,
or the third option
is pre-training task,
this is like language modeling or
masked words or next
sentence predictions.
For example, you just mask
a word and you try to
predict what that word
is,or given two sentences,
you predict yes if
they follow one
another, and no otherwise.
We're going to look at
each method or each
option in more detail.
In the continuous
bag-of-words model,
remember that's ideally
you wanted to predict
the middle word or
the central word based off
the context around it.
In this case, I am blank
because I am learning and
you predict the word happy.
Now, the models weights became
word embeddings and also
called word vectors.
Where else have you
used word embeddings,
and in other downstream tasks
like machine translation,
we use this word embeddings.
Over here, you have
the features and
then you feed them
into your model,
and you can translate English
to German, for example.
Word embeddings are the
high level features and
it can be used to provide more
meaning to the raw inputs.
This method is called the
Feature-based approach
to transfer Learning.
Now to get into some more detail,
there are two ways to
do transfer learning.
The first way is using
feature-based learning,
which allows you to get
the high level features.
For example, over here you
have some pre-training.
You feed it into a model,
you get the predictions,
and then you use these
weights as your word vectors.
Then so these become
your features.
You feed them into a new model
and you get predictions.
Now, on the other hand,
for the fine tuning,
you have some more embedding,
you feed this into a model,
you got a prediction.
Then you use these weights,
these very same weights to
fine tune the same model
on a downstream tasks.
Given the initial weights
that you trained in
the first model,
you start with them as
the initialized weights
for the second model.
In fine tuning, you
can also add a layer.
For example, over here,
let's say that you're
predicting movie reviews,
whether one star, two
stars or three stars.
Then you take these weights
and you try to predict
course reviews.
But over here, the
only issue is that
the course reviews
have five predictions.
One star all the
way to five-stars.
To fix this problem is
pretty straight forward.
You can just fix all of
these blocks over here,
keep them the same.
Then you create a
new output layer,
that's will match this dimension.
You only find tune on
this output layer,
while keeping
everything else frozen.
One other thing to keep
in mind when you're
building these models is
that given some data,
you feed it into a model,
and then you can get
a normal performance
or an okay performance.
But if you have larger data,
and you build a larger model,
then you get a
better performance.
The main take away is that,
the larger the data set you have,
the bigger models you can build,
then the better your
results will likely be.
Now let's look at labeled
versus unlabeled data.
As expected over here,
you can see that the drawings,
this represents the amount of
available text data in
each category there is,
and as you can see
that there is way
more unlabeled data
than label data.
For a more concrete example,
we'll see how we can
use unlabeled data.
In pre-training, we can have
no labels at all, for example,
we can just mask random words,
and try to predict
what those words are,
without having any labels.
Then in downstream tasks,
we can use the model weights
and try to predict
using labeled data on,
for example, over here,
what is pay day ,
you feed it into your
model,and you're
model will respond March 14th.
The question is, which tasks
work with unlabeled data?
Self supervised tasks work
with unlabeled data, for example,
given unlabeled data, you
can create inputs
or the features.
Then you can create
targets or labels.
For example, just masking
key word and trying to
predict the masked word,
is an example of this approach.
Self supervised tasks look
like this, given unlabeled data,
learning from
deeplearning.ai is like
watching the sunset
with my best friend.
You create an input where
you just mask the
last word, friend.
Then you have a model which
takes into input,
gets a prediction.
Then as you can see,
the targets is friend,
you use the prediction and
the target to get a loss.
Then you update the model
based off of your prediction
and the loss that you got.
This is simple language modeling,
and you should be familiar
with this by now.
Fine tuning a model for
each downstream task,
first, you have some model
where you pre-training,
and then you use that very
same model, say for example,
to translate English to German,
or to do summarization,
or to do question answering.
You use the initial weights and
you just fine tune
on a different task.
In summary, you have seen
how given some data,
you feed this into your
model, you get a prediction.
But now, with transfer learning,
you can use feature-based
approach like
word vectors or the
fine tuning approach.
This leads you to using some
type of pre-trained data,
for labeled and
unlabeled datasets,
or using pre-training task
like mask toward modeling or
next sentence prediction.
You have now seen some
advantages of transfer learning.